# rsnn_3I
Investigating the roles of distinct inhibitory neuron types in temporal cortical computation

The cortex houses excitatory and inhibitory neuron types. Inhibitory neurons are shown to regulate excitation and maintain critical activity. Research discovered that there are many types of inhibitory neuron types. Some of these include PV, SST, 5HT. These neuron types have distinct structures and electrical properties, accomplishing distinct functions. We believe that roles of distinct inhibitory neuron types are critical for the activity in cortex. While their activation patterns and connectivities are previously studies (PV spikes frequently and loses potential quickly while SST emits spikes in a more spread out fashin and loses potential gradually), their specific functions in temporal computation are not known. 
In order to understand the roles of distinct inhibitory neuron types in temporal computation, we develop biologically plausible Recurrent Spiking Neural Network(RSNN) models with different combinations of three inhibitory neuron types, all initialized via different Beta values and connectivity probabilities. All neurons in these models are an altered version of the LIF neuron in PyTorch's snnTorch library.  Moreover, we engineer a simple temporal task data (sinewave generation task) and variations to it such as synchronization continuation. This task is requires a model to predict a sinewave vector when provided with amplitude, period, and time vectors. We train our RSNN models on variations of the sinewave task using backpropagation with surrogate gradient descent. We record weight connectivity data, spike data, sine wave predictions, losses etc. 
We then conduct various analyses in our data:
* compare losses between task variations and models, inferring superior learning.
* analyzing the spike activity patterns of distinct neuron types by visualizing spike rasters, if so, understanding what functions distinct activity patterns serve to. 
* analyze weight changes in each of input, recurrent and output layers by visualizing weight change matrices. Inferring if the model learns to strengthen particular groups of weights, and if so, understanding what function that weight change serves.
* investigating single neuron connections by drawing neuron connectivity diagrams. Understanding causal relationships between individual neuron connections. If a PV neuron that is active for a period strongly projects to an Excitatory neuron that is muted for the same period, we conclude that PV neuron's responsibility is to regulate that excitatory neuron's excitation. 

These investigations will allow us to understand deeply how artificial diverse inhibitory neuron types optimize computation (if they do so).